9420 drupalcms new (#9448)
pantheon-systems/documentation: source/content/drupal-cms.md

---
title: Drupal CMS on Pantheon
description: Learn about installing and managing Drupal CMS sites on Pantheon.
tags: [site, D11]
permalink: docs/drupal-cms
contributors: [alexmoreno, stevector]
contenttype: [doc]
innav: [true]
categories: [create]
cms: [drupal]
audience: [development]
product: [dashboard, terminus]
integration: [--]
reviewed: "2024-02-10"
---

# Drupal CMS

> Released in January of 2025, Drupal CMS is a relatively new wrapper around Drupal Core.

Reviewer: Defining Drupal CMS as "relatively new" will date this docs page and require us to come back at some point in the future to adjust the language when it is no longer new. I think we can solve the problem by just removing "relatively new".
```suggestion
Released in January of 2025, Drupal CMS is a wrapper around Drupal Core.
```

Drupal CMS builds on the concept of [Recipes](https://www.drupal.org/docs/extending-drupal/drupal-recipes) to [radically reduce the amount of time and expertise required to stand up common functionality](https://pantheon.io/blog/drupal-cms-innovations).
In particular, Drupal CMS is aimed at Marketers and Content Editors who commonly use Drupal, but who may not have the technical expertise to install and configure modules themselves.

> For Pantheon's developer-centric community, Drupal CMS will be most valuable as a reference point and proving ground for recipes.

Reviewer: Is this accurate? This seems to be saying that we don't expect Pantheon customers to get much use out of Drupal CMS.

Author: I think recipes will be useful for everyone. I was testing AI chatbot the other day, and installing and configuring those modules took me quite a bit of time, and I failed. Using the recipe I had the bot up and running in minutes. 

I'll propose an update on this text

Reviewer 2: @jazzsequence can you re-review? I'd like to get this PR merged

> For Pantheon's developer-centric community, Drupal CMS will be most valuable as a reference point and proving ground for recipes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Pantheon's developer-centric community, Drupal CMS can be used as a reference point and proving ground for recipes.
```

> After trial usage of recipe combinations in sandbox sites, teams cab then replicate their favorite recipes on new or pre-existing live sites.

Reviewer: This whole section feels like we're downselling Drupal CMS and giving reasons why it's not a real solution for Pantheon customers. I don't think that's the sense we want to portray. The suggestions I've made hopefully address this somewhat.

Reviewer 2: I accepted those suggestions. What do you think now?

> After trial usage of recipe combinations in sandbox sites, teams cab then replicate their favorite recipes on new or pre-existing live sites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After trial usage of recipe combinations in sandbox sites, experienced development teams can then replicate their favorite recipes on new or pre-existing live sites.
```

## Installing Drupal CMS on Pantheon

> Drupal CMS can be installed in a fresh sandbox site on Pantheon the same as vanilla Drupal 11 and WordPress are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Drupal CMS can be installed in a fresh sandbox site on Pantheon.
```

[This link will take you straight to site creation with Drupal CMS in the dashboard](https://dashboard.pantheon.io/sites/create?upstream_id=462d08e2-3322-48a1-b150-f12a075eaabe).

![Drupal CMS Dashboard](../images/drupalcms/deploying-drupalcms-dashboard.png)

If you prefer, you can also create a new site with Drupal CMS using [Terminus](/terminus):

```bash
terminus site:create drupal-cms-sandbox "A Drupal CMS Sandbox" drupal-cms-composer-managed --org=pantheon-cooking
```

After the site creation process provisions a database, code, and other resources, use the browser-based installer to set up your Drupal CMS site.

![The Drupal CMS installation screen](../images/drupalcms/configure-drupalcms.png)

## Troubleshooting common issues with Drupal CMS

> In addition to Recipes, Drupal CMS elevates other new technical constructs within Drupal can be challenging to troubleshoot or raise the importance of workflow clarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to Recipes, Drupal CMS elevates other new technical constructs within Drupal that can be challenging to troubleshoot or raise the importance of workflow clarity.
```

### Timeouts and Errors during Drupal CMS Installation

Selecting a large number of recipes in during installation seems to correlate with an increased likelihood of timeouts and errors.

If you encounter a timeout or error during installation you can likely resolve it by clearing caches:

  ![Clear Cache Button](../images/clear-cache-button.png)

If clearing caches does not resolve the error, you may need to wipe your database and install again. Wiping can be done via the [dashboard](/site-dashboard) or [Terminus](/terminus/commands/env-wipe).

[See this GitHub issue for more discussion of timeouts and errors during Drupal CMS installation.](https://github.com/pantheon-upstreams/drupal-cms-composer-managed/issues/1)

> ### Project Browser and file system writablility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Project Browser
```

Project Browser is a new feature that allows modules and recipes to be installed or applied directly from Drupal's browser-based administrative interface.

> Adding modules and recipes to a site using assumes some version-controlled files and directories are writable by the web server and it also presumes that there is only one web server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Project Browser and file system write access

Adding modules and recipes to a site using assumes some version-controlled files and directories are writable by the web server and it also presumes that there is only one web server.
```

On Pantheon sites, Test and Live environments are locked down for security purposes, and therefore not writable.
Also, on some plans, Test and Live environments have multiple containers that can serve web requests.
This means that Project Browser can only be used on Pantheon in the Dev and Multidev environments when those environments are in SFTP mode.

After using Project Browser to install modules, you must [commit and push the changes to your codebase in order to deploy them to Test and Live](/drupal-configuration-management).

> ### Project Browser and Pantheon-provided Composer scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Project Browser and Pantheon-provided Composer scripts
```

> If you intend to use Project Browser first remove extra the composer scripts that Pantheon provides upon site creation. These scripts hook into the Composer lifecycle and can interfere with the Project Browser's ability to install modules and recipes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you intend to use Project Browser, first remove the composer scripts that Pantheon provides on site creation. These scripts hook into the Composer lifecycle and can interfere with the Project Browser's ability to install modules and recipes.
```

> These scripts are most useful for teams that then create their own upstreams or distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pantheon's upstream configuration scripts are most useful for teams that create and maintain their own upstreams or distributions.
```

They also provide some helper functionality like keeping the PHP versions declared in `composer.json` in sync with those declared in `pantheon.yml`.

To remove these scripts:

1. Delete the `upstream-configuration` entry from the `repositories` section of `composer.json`:

```json
        {
            "type": "path",
            "url": "upstream-configuration"
        }
```

2. Delete the `"upstream-configuration` entry from the `require` section of `composer.json`:

```json
        "pantheon-upstreams/upstream-configuration": "dev-main",
```

> 3. Delete the `autoload`, `scripts`, and `scripts-descriptions` from `composer.json`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Delete the `autoload`, `scripts`, and `scripts-descriptions` that reference `upstream-configuration` or `DrupalComposerManaged` from `composer.json`:
```

The user might have their own `autoload` or `scripts`/`scripts-descriptions` in their `composer.json` file and should not just remove those sections wholesale.

Reviewer 2: good point
